docs_src/src/important.md, before:

# Important Notes

## Achievement Enabler and Game Leaderboards
When the game is launched in a modded state, achievements and daily run
leaderboard submissions are disabled by default. There unfortunately is nothing
I can do about this within the scope of this mod. Achievements can be reenabled
however using the achievement enabler mod. Install this from the following
locations:

* [Achievement Enabler Steam
  Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1692554109)
* there is currently no GitHub repository for this mod.

## Cloud Saves
When the game is launched via ModTheSpire using the mts_steam.cmd file, it does
not run all of the usual Steam functions that would be run if the game was
launched normally. As a result, your game data is not automatically backed up to
the Steam Cloud. To fix this, run the game normally and select the option to
upload your data. This prompt should load as a standard html page, however it
may not and OCR may be required. You can copy the json files from the game
directory to manually back up your saves as an alternative. Unfortunately there
seems to be no way to have data periodically back up with Steam itself.

## Settings not Saving
There is a bug related to Game Settings not saving when using Mod the Spire.
This seems to be an issue with ModTheSpire, Steam, and the game itself.

Commit message:

Update the important section of the docs with missing info

docs_src/src/important.md, after:

# Important Notes

## Important: Achievement Enabler and Game Leaderboards
When the game is launched in a modded state, achievements and daily run
leaderboard submissions are disabled by default. The game tracks the state of certain achievements to determine when some characters are unlocked, so it is important that you enable achievements with the Achievement Enabler mod linked below.

* [Achievement Enabler Steam
  Workshop](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1692554109)
* there is currently no GitHub repository for this mod.

## Important: Cloud Saves
When the game is launched via ModTheSpire using the mts_steam.cmd file, it does
not run all of the usual Steam functions that would be run if the game was
launched normally. As a result, your game data is not automatically backed up to
the Steam Cloud. To fix this, run the game normally and select the option to
upload your data. This prompt should load as a standard html page, however it
may not and OCR may be required. You can copy the json files from the game
directory to manually back up your saves as an alternative. Unfortunately there
seems to be no way to have data periodically back up with Steam itself. Make sure to do this somewhat frequently or you will lose your progress should you lose the local save files.

## Settings not Saving
There is a bug related to game settings not saving. The game does not seem to trigger settings being saved when you adjust some specific settings, namely the three volume sliders. To get these settings to save, toggle one of the settings checkboxes (such as ambience). this should trigger your settings to be saved correctly.
